WIP: Rework ES/RHEL/CentOS doc (#759)
SUSE/doc-susemanager: modules/client-configuration/pages/clients-sleses.adoc

[[clients-sleses]]
= Registering {sleses} Clients

This section contains information about registering traditional and Salt clients running {sleses} operating systems ({slesesa} for the rest of the guide)

{slesesa} clients can be initally based {rhel} or {centos}.

[WARNING]
====
{slesesa} clients are also called sometimes SLESES, RES or {redhat} {slesesa})

> For {rhel} based clients tou are responsible for arranging access to {rhela} or {centos} base media repositories installation media.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For {rhel} based clients you are responsible for arranging access to {rhela} or {centos} base media repository installation media.
```
Maybe, we can just say "installation media" instead of "base media repository installation media".

ifeval::[{suma-content} == true]
You must obtain support from {suse} for all your {slesesa} systems.
endif::[]
ifeval::[{uyuni-content} == true]
{suse} does not provide support for {slesesa} systems on Uyuni.
endif::[]
====

> == Server requirements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Server Requirements
```

> Ensure that your {productname} Server meets the requirements outlined at xref:installation:hardware-requirements.adoc[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you begin, check that your {productname} Server meets the requirements at xref:installation:hardware-requirements.adoc[].
```
Use exactly the same wording as above.

Taskomatic will use one CPU core, and requires at least 3072{nbsp}MB RAM.

To ensure that Taskomatic has access to enough memory, open the [path]``/etc/rhn/rhn.conf`` configuration file, add this line:

----
taskomatic.java.maxmemory=3072
----

Restart Taskomatic:
----
systemctl restart taskomatic
----

== {slesesa} Channel Management

[IMPORTANT]
====
Missing packages will cause your registration to fail.
For {slesesa} clients, some required packages are contained on the {rhel} installation media or the {centos} installation media.
Ensure you follow the whole procedure before trying to register any {slesesa} client
====

> === Add {slesesa} product from SCC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Add {slesesa} Product from SCC
```

The {slesesa} product is provided by {scc}, including the client tools.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Because the {slesesa} channels are particularly large, it can take up to 24 hours for an initial channel synchronization to complete.
When you have completed the initial synchronization, we recommended you clone the channel before working with it.
This provides you with a backup of the original synchronization data.
====

Before you register {slesesa} clients to your {productname} Server, check that you have the corresponding {slesesa} product enabled, and the required channels are fully synchronized.

You need to select two different sets of channels, one for {slesesa} and the other for the Client Tools.

{slesesa} 6::

> * "RHEL6 Base x86_64" and "SUSE Linux Enterprise Client Tools RES6 x86_64" at the WebUI, or [systemitem]``rhel-x86_64-server-6`` and [systemitem]``res6-suse-manager-tools-x86_64`` at CLI. This adds the packages for the {slesesa} Client Tools.

Reviewer: In the following, avoid abbrevs such as CLI and use {webui} instead of WebUI.

* "RHEL Expanded Support 6" at the WebUI, or [systemitem]``res6-x86_64`` at CLI. This adds the packages for the {slesesa} Operating System.

// I suggest adding a screenshot

{slesesa} 7::
* "RHEL7 Base x86_64" and "SUSE Linux Enterprise Client Tools RES7 x86_64" at the WebUI, or [systemitem]``rhel-x86_64-server-7`` and [systemitem]``res7-suse-manager-tools-x86_64`` at CLI. This adds the packages for the {slesesa} Client Tools.
* "RHEL Expanded Support 7" at the WebUI, or [systemitem]``res7-x86_64`` at CLI. This adds the packages for the {slesesa} Operating System.

// I suggest adding screenshot

You can synchronize the channels with [command]``mgr-sync``.

There are two ways to check if a channel has finished synchronizing:

* In the {productname} {webui}, navigate to menu:Admin[Setup Wizard] and select the menu:SUSE Products[] tab.
This dialog displays a completion bar for each product when they are being synchronized.
* You can also check the synchronization log file at the command prompt.

> Use the [command]``cat`` or [command]``tail -f`` command to view the [path]``/var/log/rhn/reposync/channel-label.log`` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the [command]``tail -f`` command to view the [path]``/var/log/rhn/reposync/channel-label.log`` file.
```

. Create a directory to contain the media content (you can replace [path]``/rhel`` with [path]``/centos`` if you are using {centos}
+
----
mkdir -p /srv/www/htdocs/pub/rhel
----
. Mount the ISO:
+
----
mount -o loop /tmp/name_of_iso /srv/www/htdocs/pub/rhel
----
. Synchronize the packages with [command]``spacewalk-repo-sync``:
+
For {rhel} or {centos} 7:
+
----
spacewalk-repo-sync -c channel_name -u https://127.0.0.1/pub/rhel/
Repo URL: https://127.0.0.1/pub/rhel/
Packages in repo:              [...]
Packages already synced:       [...]
Packages to sync:              [...]
[...]
----
+
For {rhel} or {centos} 6:
+
----
spacewalk-repo-sync -c channel_name -u https://127.0.0.1/pub/rhel/Server/
Repo URL: https://127.0.0.1/pub/rhel/Server/
Packages in repo:              [...]
Packages already synced:       [...]
Packages to sync:              [...]
[...]
----

Sometimes, the [command]``spacewalk-repo-sync`` will stop running during a synchronization, which will give this error:
----
[Errno 256] No more mirrors to try.
----

If this occurs, you can run [command]``spacewalk-repo-sync`` in debugging mode to determine the error.

> Start debugging mode:

Reviewer: There is doubt whether this will still work: see mc's comment https://github.com/SUSE/doc-susemanager/pull/757

This also includes the client tools package.

Before you register {slesesa} clients to your {productname} Server, check that you have the corresponding {slesesa} product enabled, and the required channels are fully synchronized.

You need to select two different sets of channels, one for {slesesa} and the other for the Client Tools.

You will need an activation key associated with the correct {slesesa} channels.
For more information about activation keys, see xref:client-configuration:clients-and-activation-keys.adoc[].

.Procedure: Adding Client Tools Channels

. On the {productname} Server, add the appropriate {slesesa} channels:
+
* For {slesesa} 6:
+
From the {webui}, add [systemitem]``RHEL6 Base x86_64`` and [systemitem]``SUSE Linux Enterprise Client Tools RES6 x86_64``.
+
From the command prompt, add [systemitem]``rhel-x86_64-server-6`` and [systemitem]``res6-suse-manager-tools-x86_64``.
+
* For {slesesa} 7:
+
From the {webui}, add [systemitem]``RHEL7 Base x86_64`` and [systemitem]``SUSE Linux Enterprise Client Tools RES7 x86_64``.
+
From the command prompt, add [systemitem]``rhel-x86_64-server-7`` and [systemitem]``res7-suse-manager-tools-x86_64``.

> .  Synchronize the {productname} Server with the {SCC}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Synchronize the {productname} Server with the {SCC}.
```

> You can do this using the {webui}, or by running [command]``mgr-sync`` at the command prompt. to do it from CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can do this using the {webui}, or by running [command]``mgr-sync`` at the command prompt.
```
